📄 Project: Offline AI Changelog Assistant
1. Project Goal
To create a 100% offline, Python-based application that acts as a documentation assistant. The system will feature a simple web interface, read local software project files, analyze code changes using Git, and use a local LLM to generate "What's New" documentation in a user-defined format.

2. Core Features
100% Offline: All components, including the AI model, run locally. No internet connection is required.

Simple Web Interface: A browser-based UI (HTML/CSS/JS) for interacting with the assistant.

Python Backend: The entire backend logic, server, and model inference is handled by Python.

Local File System Access: The assistant can be pointed to a project directory to read files and analyze the codebase.

Git Integration: The system's primary data source for changes is the project's Git history (specifically git diff).

Local LLM Inference: Uses a local model file (GGUF) loaded directly into the Python application for text generation.

3. System Architecture
The project is built on a simple client-server model that runs entirely on your local machine.

Component 1: The Frontend (Web UI)

Description: A single HTML page with JavaScript that provides the user interface.

Function: It displays controls (like a 'Generate' button) and text areas. It sends tasks to the Python backend (via a fetch request) and displays the returned documentation.

Component 2: The Backend (Python Server)

Description: A lightweight Python web server using Flask (or FastAPI). This is the "brain" of the operation.

Function:

Serves the index.html file to the browser.

Provides an API endpoint (e.g., /api/generate_docs).

File System Logic: When called, it uses Python's os and pathlib libraries to inspect the user-specified project folder.

Git Logic: It uses a Python library (like GitPython or subprocess) to run git diff commands on that project's folder to get the exact lines of code that have changed.

Prompt Engineering: It formats this git diff output and other file contents into a clear, detailed prompt for the AI.

Model-Gekoppelde: It passes this prompt to the Model component and waits for the generated text.

Responds to the Frontend with the final documentation.

Component 3: The Model (Python LLM Loader)

Description: This is not a separate server, but a Python library imported directly by the Backend.

Technology: llama-cpp-python.

Function:

Loads a large model file (e.g., mistral-7b.gguf) from your hard drive into your computer's memory (RAM or VRAM).

Provides a simple function (e.g., llm.create_completion()) that the Backend can call with a prompt.

Generates text based on the prompt, using your CPU or GPU.

Returns the generated text to the Backend.

4. Technology Stack
Backend Server: Flask (Recommended for its simplicity)

LLM Inference: llama-cpp-python (The core library for running the model in Python)

Git Interface: GitPython (A Python library for interacting with Git repositories)

Frontend: HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript (ES6+)

The Model File: A GGUF-formatted model, such as:

Best Choice: Mistral-7B-Instruct.Q4_K_M.gguf (A great balance of speed and intelligence)

Next Big Thing (Future): A high-performance 8B+ model like a new Llama or Mistral variant.

5. Development & Setup Plan (Blueprint)
This is the phased plan to build the project.

Phase 1: Environment Setup
Create Project Folder: mkdir ai_assistant

Create Python Virtual Environment:

Bash

cd ai_assistant
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
Install Python Libraries:

Bash

pip install flask llama-cpp-python GitPython
Get the Model:

Go to a site like Hugging Face.

Search for "Mistral 7B Instruct GGUF".

Download a medium-sized quantize file (e.g., Q4_K_M or Q5_K_M).

Save this .gguf file inside your ai_assistant project folder.

Phase 2: Build the Backend (app.py)
Create app.py: This file will contain your Flask server.

Tasks for this file:

Import Flask, Llama (from llama_cpp), and Repo (from git).

Initialize the Llama object by pointing it to your .gguf model file.

Create a Flask route / that serves an index.html file.

Create a Flask route /api/generate_docs (as a POST method).

Inside this API route:

Get the project path from the request.

Use Repo(project_path) to open the Git repository.

Get the diff (e.g., repo.index.diff(None) for staged changes).

Create a prompt string (e.g., "Generate documentation for this diff: \n" + diff_text).

Call the llm() function with your prompt.

Return the model's output as a JSON response.

Phase 3: Build the Frontend (index.html)
Create index.html: A basic HTML file.

Tasks for this file:

Add a text input for the "Project Folder Path".

Add a large text area for "Custom Prompt / Format".

Add a "Generate" button.

Add a <pre> or <div> tag to display the results.

Write a JavaScript fetch() function that:

Triggers on button click.

Gets the values from the inputs.

Sends them to http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/generate_docs.

Waits for the JSON response.

Puts the generated documentation into the result <div>.

Phase 4: Run the Application
Run the Backend:

Bash

python app.py
Use the Frontend:

Open your web browser.

Go to http://127.0.0.1:5000 (or http://localhost:5000).

The index.html page will load, and you can now use your offline assistant.
